Asif: I can’t even begin to tell you how ashamed I am!

Sameer: But why? There is nothing to be ashamed of…

Asif: I knew all about it, but I still got it. It is all my fault.

Reshma: Perhaps! Admittedly, not all of us knew about it, not entirely, not even after all that work.

Udaybir: Sister, I have been coming here for years. It all gets normalised after a while.

Sameer: Don’t blame yourself, haven't we all suffered enough, already?

Udaybir: Well, you are straight (almost), and you have a family, it’s not bad as it is with us. Coming here has become an inseparable part of my life.

Sameer: Really? Do you think? (pointing towards Asif)

Asif: What he meant is, you can ‘pass’ safely as straight, whereas ones who ‘looks’ feminine, like us, face a lot more challenges and violence daily. And trust me, I can relate to it. I used to fear to step out of the house, but then for some of us houses were not the safest place either.

Sameer: Aha! However, I am that ‘Giriya’ who wasn’t even included in those HIV programmes, initially. Moreover, this ‘passing’ prevented us from accessing ‘safe-spaces’—whatever they might be. I feel stuck between marriage and my duty to perform ‘masculinity’, and to be a man. So ‘passing’ didn’t protect me. So, I still end up here, with you all.

Asif: I know. However, wouldn’t you agree that the burden of practicing safe sex was put on our shoulders as if only we control the entire game?

Reshma: Haha. Do you remember that ABC rule?

Asif: Those were bizarre. Abstinent, Be faithful, and use Condom. (they all laughed)

Reshma: Haha. See, I am a Hijra! Neither here nor there. Also, I feel that the ‘programme’ is not always beneficial. Sometimes what looks like ‘help’ can paralyse your desire to live, and even to think freely.

Sameer: Why? What’s with all that you being divine and with the power to bless and all?

Reshma: Arrey. Those were different times when our Gurus were considered to be divine. They had their say and status in the king’s court, but these ancient stories, now only good for getting funding, in real-life there is not much currency in them. The truth is that most of us are still not embraced by our families. Everyone looks at us with ridicule or fear—that might curse them. Trust me, when all you want is love, this feeling of rejection is not very pleasant to wake up to, day after day, every day.

Udaybir: This isn’t a competition to claim who is more oppressed than other. I am a double-decker, who never gained the trust of any. So, let’s fuck this. For better or worse one thing has tied us all, and we are all here. Though, I wish we could have been brought together in some other way.

Asif: You are right. However, my question is, why are we like this? Why do we suffer and for what?

Reshma: Err… We suffer because we are different, and we resist, my dear. Perhaps, if we conformed to their norms, then we might not.

Asif: Who are they? Also, how can they decide for so many of us?

Udaybir: The ‘us’ always mystifies me, how ‘us’ is being used, in what context and by whom? Who is included in this ‘us’ and who is being excluded? It is power as well as oppression. However, it is such a frightening thought. What would we ‘be’ without the ‘us’?

Sameer: Oh drama-queen, please be quiet.

Asif: What, what did you say?

Sameer: See, we don’t live in isolation. Here, at this very moment, we have formed our own ‘us’. So, we are all part of a more extensive system, which works for whoever is in the majority, even though it is democratic. However, it doesn’t work for everyone… sometimes this doesn’t even work for those who conform with their ‘norms’. Sigh!

Reshma: True. We were all born into it, we are all products of this system which retroactively programs us, and we respond to it inevitably, unconsciously, automatically.

Udaybir: Ahem. Then why do they say democracy is the best possible solution for humanity?

Asif: And silly me, I thought we all are free citizens.

Sameer: We are, but as I always say—freedom is a myth, and so is a democracy.

Udaybir: Haha. Listen to him. You were talking about resisting earlier on. I don’t think we resist, consciously, it’s quite the opposite. To me, it’s an impulsive reaction to this systematic oppression.

Reshma: You are confusing her. Her question is, why do only some of us suffer? One of the answers to that could be patriarchy, the system we have been talking about, that controls the state and societies. It is fundamental to maintaining the hierarchies of all the systems— religious, social, economic—that regulate you and me. So, we are all subjugated by it.

Asif: Yes. But if you remember, as children, we all were forced to believe that there is nothing that matters beyond our family boundaries, that we do not exist outside. That’s where this yearning to belong comes from, and we still hope that they accept us, the way we are.   

Udaybir: I am not sure why we gave so much leverage to the family and its values… I don’t feel the need for my family’s approval; they will never give it to me, so why do I even bother? I have other families, I have you all.

Sameer: Yes, and I did all the right things, family, children. Didn’t I?

Asif: You did; hence, you are that system, too.

Udaybir: How does it relate to people like us? We are already outside the family structure, so do we even exist?

Reshma: We all exist. We are all flesh and bones. YES, we exist, we are, just not acknowledged by the majority.

Udaybir: You know what, your ‘just’ is killing me, although it all makes sense.

Asif: But now I am more confused. Patriarchy belongs to men, right? And, we are all men, including you, who was born into a male body. So?

Reshma: Well, now you are talking about gender and its related troubles. However, patriarchy is more complicated, and we all must put up with it. Having said that, be also eful, there are hierarchies within patriarchy based on caste and class, which in other societies could be race and religion. 

Sameer: Wait a minute, it would be worth thinking about what this ‘we’ or ‘us’ means, which we use so casually? 

Udaybir: Oh, dear! You all are sounding like those meetings that we used to attend, years ago, where they gave away so many condoms. However, never translated what was happening in the rest of the world with the disease, so what was the point? How can you all talk like them? How can you all use the same language? A language that isn’t us. And yes, I am calling all those people ‘them’; they are not one of us. Otherwise, they would be sitting here, right now.

Reshma: That’s little harsh to say. Although, I feel your pain.

Asif: Well, it is important that we learn the language of discourse and be aware what’s happening in our names. Don’t you think?

Udaybir: I know change is natural, but isn’t this too much? To me, it’s like the victim becoming the perpetrator!

Reshma: Haha nahi re! It’s not that bad yet. We are just helping each other to understand things better.

Udaybir: Again, this ‘just’ is working as salt on my wounds. Maybe, there is no one answer, or am I too cynical about it?

Asif: See, these are the kinds of things that bother me. But, at this moment, my most burning question is, if this is suffering, as they say it is, then why only us? And if this is true, that we are suffering, and it is only ‘us’ who are suffering, then at this pace, would there be any of ‘us’ left to suffer in the future?

Sameer: It will get better, trust me.

Asif: How? I am not even talking about the amount of shame we are carrying on our shoulders. I am crumbling beneath it. Sometimes it feels like I will die from the sheer weight of it. And you still believe that things will get better! What do you say to me?

Silence. Although, in these silences, there are voices that started to emerge; voices for dissent, voices for desire.